Update WebRTC media source stats (#32538)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/rtcvideosourcestats/index.md

These statistics can be obtained by iterating the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} returned by {{domxref("RTCRtpSender.getStats()")}} or {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}} until you find a report with the [`type`](#type) of `media-source` and a [`kind`](#kind) of `video`.

> **Note:** For video information about remotely sourced tracks (that are being received), see {{domxref("RTCInboundRtpStreamStats")}}.

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.frames", "frames")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A positive number that indicates the total number of frames sent from this video source.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.framesPerSecond", "framesPerSecond")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number that represents the number of frames sent from this video source in the last second.
    This property is not defined on this stats object for the first second of its existence.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.height", "height")}} {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A positive number that represents the height, in pixels, of the last frame originating from this source.

Reviewer: Also if we say "positive" here should we say it for the others? Or maybe it isn't worth saying, too obvious?

>   - : A positive number that represents the height, in pixels, of the last frame originating from this source.

Author: > Do you think "most recently sent" might be clearer than "last"? Also in width.

Only if we were to use "sent". But if we're using the spec words "originating from" we can't. So no. I'm going to make it originating everywhere here.

>   - : A positive number that represents the height, in pixels, of the last frame originating from this source.

Author: > Also if we say "positive" here should we say it for the others? Or maybe it isn't worth saying, too obvious?

Yes - we should say "positive" where they have to be.

In this interface it isn't really necessary but in some of the RTC stats the values can be negative because of the way things are calculated. So while I dislike using positive it is actually kind of safer.

---
title: RTCVideoSourceStats
slug: Web/API/RTCVideoSourceStats
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.RTCStatsReport.type_media-source
spec-urls: https://w3c.github.io/webrtc-stats/#dom-rtcvideosourcestats
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

The **`RTCVideoSourceStats`** dictionary of the [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) provides statistics information about a video track ({{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}}) that is attached to one or more senders ({{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}}).

These statistics can be obtained by iterating the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} returned by {{domxref("RTCRtpSender.getStats()")}} or {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}} until you find a report with the [`type`](#type) of `media-source` and a [`kind`](#kind) of `video`.

> **Note:** For video information about remotely sourced tracks (that are being received), see {{domxref("RTCInboundRtpStreamStats")}}.

## Instance properties

> - {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.frames", "frames")}} {{optional_inline}}
>   - : A positive number that indicates the total number of frames sent from this video source.
> - {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.framesPerSecond", "framesPerSecond")}} {{optional_inline}}
>   - : A number that represents the number of frames sent from this video source in the last second.
>     This property is not defined on this stats object for the first second of its existence.
> - {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.height", "height")}} {{optional_inline}}
>   - : A positive number that represents the height, in pixels, of the last frame originating from this source.
>     This property is not defined on this stats object until after the first frame has been produced.
> - {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.width", "width")}} {{optional_inline}}
>   - : A number that represents the width, in pixels, of the last frame originating from this source.
>     This property is not defined on this stats object until after the first frame has been produced.

Author: ```suggestion
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.frames", "frames")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A positive number that indicates the total number of frames originating from this video source.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.framesPerSecond", "framesPerSecond")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A positive number that represents the number of frames originating from this video source in the last second.
    This property is not defined on this stats object for the first second of its existence.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.height", "height")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number that represents the height, in pixels, of the last frame originating from this source.
    This property is not defined on this stats object until after the first frame has been produced.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.width", "width")}} {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number that represents the width, in pixels, of the most recent frame originating from this source.
    This property is not defined on this stats object until after the first frame has been produced.
```

### Common media-source properties

The following properties are present in both `RTCVideoSourceStats` and {{domxref("RTCAudioSourceStats")}}: <!-- RTCMediaSourceStats  -->

- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.trackIdentifier", "trackIdentifier")}}
  - : A string that contains the [`id`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack/id) value of the [`MediaStreamTrack`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack) associated with the video source.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.kind", "kind")}}

>   - : A string indicating the kind of media source. For an `RTCVideoSourceStats` this will always be `video`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : A string indicating whether this object represents stats for a video source or a media source. For an `RTCVideoSourceStats` this will always be `video`.
```

- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.timestamp", "timestamp")}}
  - : A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} object indicating the time at which the sample was taken for this statistics object.
- {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats.type", "type")}}
  - : A string with the value `"media-source"`, indicating that the object is an instance of either {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats")}} or {{domxref("RTCVideoSourceStats")}}.

## Description

The interface provides statistics about a video media source attached to one or more senders.
The information includes a identifier for the associated `MediaStreamTrack`, along with the height and width of the last frame sent from the source, the number of frames sent from the source, and the frame rate.

## Examples

This example shows how you might iterate the stats object returned from `RTCRtpSender.getStats()` to get the video-specific media-source stats.

```js
// where sender is an RTCRtpSender
const stats = await sender.getStats();
let videoSourceStats = null;

stats.forEach((report) => {
  if (report.type === "media-source" && report.kind==="video") {
    videoSourceStats = report;
    break;
  }
});

> // framesPerSecond, width, height, may initially be defined on the stats object
> const frames = videoSourceStats.frames;
> const fps = videoSourceStats?.framesPerSecond;
> const width = videoSourceStats?.width;
> const height = videoSourceStats?.height;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// videoSourceStats will be null if the report did not include video source stats
const frames = videoSourceStats?.frames;
const fps = videoSourceStats?.framesPerSecond;
const width = videoSourceStats?.width;
const height = videoSourceStats?.height;
```

(sorry I must have missed this first time round)

Author: Nyaa, that's my fault/brainfade. The `frames` is required if `videoSourceStats` is populated, and that was all I was thinking here. Thanks.
